feat(uptime): add open beta documentation for uptime (#11420)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/alerts/uptime-monitoring/index.mdx

description: "Learn how to help maintain uptime for your web services by monitoring relevant URLs with Sentry's Uptime Monitoring."
---

<Include name="feature-stage-beta-uptime.mdx" />

Sentry's Uptime Monitoring lets you monitor the availability and reliability of your web services effortlessly. Once enabled, it continuously tracks configured URLs, delivering instant alerts and insights to quickly identify downtime and troubleshoot issues.

By leveraging [distributed tracing](/concepts/key-terms/tracing/distributed-tracing/), Sentry enables you to pinpoint any errors that occur during an uptime check, simplifying triage and accelerating root cause analysis. This helps you enhance both the reliability and uptime of your web services.

## Set Up

> Uptime is [automatically configured](/product/alerts/uptime-monitoring/automatic-detection/) as a new alert for the most most frequently encountered hostname in all URLs of your error data, ensuring continuous monitoring of your most critical hostname right out of the box.
> 
> You can also [create uptime monitoring alerts](/product/alerts/create-alerts/) for specific URLs, fully customizable with request details such as the HTTP method, headers, and body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uptime is [automatically configured](/product/alerts/uptime-monitoring/automatic-detection/) as a new alert for the most frequently encountered hostname in all URLs of your error data, ensuring continuous monitoring of your most critical hostname right out of the box.

You can also [create uptime monitoring alerts](/product/alerts/create-alerts/) for specific URLs. They're fully customizable with request details such as the HTTP method, headers, and body.
```

1. **Successful Response (2xx Status Codes):**
   The URL must return an HTTP status code in the 200–299 range, indicating a successful request.
2. **Automatic Handling of Redirects (3xx Status Codes):** Sentry will follow redirects for URLs returning an HTTP status code in the 300–399 range and verify that the final destination URL returns a successful response. This ensures that redirects won't falsely trigger downtime alerts.
3. **Timeout Setting:** Each request has a timeout threshold of 10 seconds.
   If the server doesn't respond within this period, the check will be marked as a failure,
   indicating a potential downtime or performance issues.
4. **DNS Issue Detection:** Our monitoring also includes the detection of DNS resolution issues.
   If a DNS issue is detected, the check will be marked as a failure,
   allowing you to address the underlying connectivity problems.

## Notifications

An uptime alert continuously monitors the configured URL with the criteria defined above. If a failure is detected,

> a new [uptime issue](/product/issues/issue-details/uptime-issues/) with the failed check and related error details will be created. To avoid triggering false alerts due to transient issues like network glitches, a new issue is created only after detecting a minimum of three consecutive failures following the initial downtime detection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a new [uptime issue](/product/issues/issue-details/uptime-issues/) with the failed check and related error details will be created. To avoid triggering false alerts due to transient issues like network glitches, new issues will only be created after a minimum of three consecutive failures have been detected, following the initial downtime detection.
```
